1.14.0 (April 8, 2020)
======================

Changes
-------

-   access log: access logger extensions use the
    \"envoy.access\_loggers\" name space. A mapping of extension names
    is available in the `deprecated <deprecated>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} documentation.
-   access log: added support for
    [%DOWNSTREAM\_LOCAL\_PORT%]{.title-ref}
    `access log formatters <config_access_log_format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   access log: fixed [%DOWSTREAM\_DIRECT\_REMOTE\_ADDRESS%]{.title-ref}
    when used with PROXY protocol listener filter.
-   access log: introduced
    `connection-level access loggers<envoy_api_field_Listener.access_log>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   adaptive concurrency: fixed bug that allowed concurrency limits to
    drop below the configured minimum.
-   adaptive concurrency: minRTT is now triggered when the minimum
    concurrency is maintained for 5 consecutive sampling intervals.
-   admin: added support for displaying ip address subject alternate
    names in `certs<operations_admin_interface_certs>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} end point.
-   admin: added :<http:post>:[/reopen\_logs]{.title-ref} endpoint to
    control log rotation.
-   api: froze v2 xDS API. New feature development in the API should
    occur in v3 xDS. While the v2 xDS API has been deprecated since
    1.13.0, it will continue to be supported by Envoy until EOY 2020.
    See `api_supported_versions`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.
-   aws\_lambda: added
    `AWS Lambda filter <config_http_filters_aws_lambda>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} that converts HTTP requests to Lambda invokes. This
    effectively makes Envoy act as an egress gateway to AWS Lambda.
-   aws\_request\_signing: a few fixes so that it works with S3.
-   config: added stat
    `update_time <config_cluster_manager_cds>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   config: use type URL to select an extension whenever the config type
    URL (or its previous versions) uniquely identify a typed extension,
    see
    `extension configuration <config_overview_extension_configuration>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   datasource: added retry policy for remote async data source.
-   dns: added support for
    `dns_failure_refresh_rate <envoy_api_field_config.common.dynamic_forward_proxy.v2alpha.DnsCacheConfig.dns_failure_refresh_rate>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for the
    `dns cache <envoy_api_msg_config.common.dynamic_forward_proxy.v2alpha.DnsCacheConfig>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to set the DNS refresh rate during failures.
-   dns: the STRICT\_DNS cluster now only resolves to 0 hosts if DNS
    resolution successfully returns 0 hosts.
-   eds: added
    `hostname <envoy_v3_api_field_config.endpoint.v3.Endpoint.hostname>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field for endpoints and
    `hostname <envoy_v3_api_field_config.endpoint.v3.Endpoint.HealthCheckConfig.hostname>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field for endpoint\'s health check config. This enables
    auto host rewrite and customizing the host header during health
    checks for eds endpoints.
-   ext\_authz: disabled the use of lowercase string matcher for headers
    matching in HTTP-based [ext\_authz]{.title-ref}. Can be reverted
    temporarily by setting runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable\_features.ext\_authz\_http\_service\_enable\_case\_sensitive\_string\_matcher]{.title-ref}
    to false.
-   fault: added support for controlling abort faults with
    `HTTP header fault configuration <config_http_filters_fault_injection_http_header>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to the HTTP fault filter.
-   grpc-json: added support for building HTTP request into
    [google.api.HttpBody](https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/google/api/httpbody.proto).
-   grpc-stats: added option to limit which messages stats are created
    for.
-   http: added HTTP/1.1 flood protection. Can be temporarily disabled
    using the runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable\_features.http1\_flood\_protection]{.title-ref}.
-   http: added
    `headers_with_underscores_action setting <envoy_api_field_core.HttpProtocolOptions.headers_with_underscores_action>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to control how client requests with header names
    containing underscore characters are handled. The options are to
    allow such headers, reject request or drop headers. The default is
    to allow headers, preserving existing behavior.
-   http: added
    `max_stream_duration <envoy_api_field_core.HttpProtocolOptions.max_stream_duration>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to specify the duration of existing streams. See
    `connection and stream timeouts <faq_configuration_timeouts>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   http: connection header sanitizing has been modified to always
    sanitize if there is no upgrade, including when an h2c upgrade
    attempt has been removed.
-   http: fixed a bug that could send extra METADATA frames and
    underflow memory when encoding METADATA frames on a connection that
    was dispatching data.
-   http: fixing a bug in HTTP/1.0 responses where Connection:
    keep-alive was not appended for connections which were kept alive.
-   http: http filter extensions use the \"envoy.filters.http\" name
    space. A mapping of extension names is available in the
    `deprecated <deprecated>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    documentation.
-   http: the runtime feature
    [http.connection\_manager.log\_flood\_exception]{.title-ref} is
    removed and replaced with a connection access log response code.
-   http: upgrade parser library, which removes support for \"identity\"
    transfer-encoding value.
-   listener filters: listener filter extensions use the
    \"envoy.filters.listener\" name space. A mapping of extension names
    is available in the `deprecated <deprecated>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} documentation.
-   listeners: added
    `listener filter matcher api <envoy_api_field_listener.ListenerFilter.filter_disabled>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to disable individual listener filter on matching
    downstream connections.
-   loadbalancing: added support for using hostname for consistent hash
    loadbalancing via
    `consistent_hash_lb_config <envoy_api_field_Cluster.CommonLbConfig.consistent_hashing_lb_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   loadbalancing: added support for
    `retry host predicates <envoy_api_field_route.RetryPolicy.retry_host_predicate>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} in conjunction with consistent hashing load balancers
    (ring hash and maglev).
-   lua: added a parameter to [httpCall]{.title-ref} that makes it
    possible to have the call be asynchronous.
-   lua: added moonjit support.
-   mongo: the stat emitted for queries without a max time set in the
    `MongoDB filter<config_network_filters_mongo_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} was modified to emit correctly for Mongo v3.2+.
-   network filters: added a
    `direct response filter <config_network_filters_direct_response>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   network filters: network filter extensions use the
    \"envoy.filters.network\" name space. A mapping of extension names
    is available in the `deprecated <deprecated>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} documentation.
-   rbac: added
    `remote_ip <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.remote_ip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `direct_remote_ip <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.direct_remote_ip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for matching downstream remote IP address.
-   rbac: deprecated
    `source_ip <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.source_ip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} with
    `direct_remote_ip <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.direct_remote_ip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `remote_ip <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.remote_ip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   request\_id\_extension: added an ability to extend request ID
    handling at
    `HTTP connection manager<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.request_id_extension>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   retry: added a retry predicate that
    `rejects hosts based on metadata. <envoy_api_field_route.RetryPolicy.retry_host_predicate>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added ability to set attempt count in downstream response,
    see `virtual host's include response
    attempt count config <envoy_api_field_route.VirtualHost.include_attempt_count_in_response>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added additional stats for
    `virtual clusters <config_http_filters_router_vcluster_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added
    `auto_san_validation <envoy_api_field_core.UpstreamHttpProtocolOptions.auto_san_validation>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to support overrriding SAN validation to transport
    socket for new upstream connections based on the downstream HTTP
    host/authority header.
-   router: added the ability to match a route based on whether a
    downstream TLS connection certificate has been
    `validated <envoy_api_field_route.RouteMatch.TlsContextMatchOptions.validated>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added support for `regex_rewrite
    <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.regex_rewrite>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for path rewriting using regular expressions and capture
    groups.
-   router: added support for [%DOWNSTREAM\_LOCAL\_PORT%]{.title-ref}
    `header formatter <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: don\'t ignore
    `per_try_timeout <envoy_api_field_route.RetryPolicy.per_try_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} when the
    `global route timeout <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is disabled.
-   router: strip whitespace for
    `retry_on <envoy_api_field_route.RetryPolicy.retry_on>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"},
    `grpc-retry-on header <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-retry-grpc-on>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `retry-on header <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-retry-on>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   runtime: enabling the runtime feature
    [envoy.deprecated\_features.allow\_deprecated\_extension\_names]{.title-ref}
    disables the use of deprecated extension names.
-   runtime: integer values may now be parsed as booleans.
-   sds: added
    `GenericSecret <envoy_api_msg_auth.GenericSecret>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to support secret of generic type.
-   sds: added
    `certificate rotation <xds_certificate_rotation>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} support for certificates in static resources.
-   server: the SIGUSR1 access log reopen warning now is logged at info
    level.
-   stat sinks: stat sink extensions use the \"envoy.stat\_sinks\" name
    space. A mapping of extension names is available in the
    `deprecated <deprecated>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    documentation.
-   thrift\_proxy: added router filter stats to docs.
-   tls: added configuration to disable stateless TLS session resumption
    `disable_stateless_session_resumption <envoy_api_field_auth.DownstreamTlsContext.disable_stateless_session_resumption>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tracing: added gRPC service configuration to the OpenCensus
    Stackdriver and OpenCensus Agent tracers.
-   tracing: tracer extensions use the \"envoy.tracers\" name space. A
    mapping of extension names is available in the
    `deprecated <deprecated>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    documentation.
-   upstream: added `upstream_rq_retry_limit_exceeded` to
    `cluster <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}, and
    `virtual cluster <config_http_filters_router_vcluster_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} stats.
-   upstream: changed load distribution algorithm when all priorities
    enter
    `panic mode<arch_overview_load_balancing_panic_threshold>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   upstream: combined HTTP/1 and HTTP/2 connection pool code. This
    means that circuit breaker limits for both requests and connections
    apply to both pool types. Also, HTTP/2 now has the option to limit
    concurrent requests on a connection, and allow multiple draining
    connections. The old behavior is deprecated, but can be used during
    the deprecation period by disabling runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable\_features.new\_http1\_connection\_pool\_behavior]{.title-ref}
    or
    [envoy.reloadable\_features.new\_http2\_connection\_pool\_behavior]{.title-ref}
    and then re-configure your clusters or restart Envoy. The behavior
    will not switch until the connection pools are recreated. The new
    circuit breaker behavior is described
    `here <arch_overview_circuit_break>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.
-   zlib: by default zlib is initialized to use its default strategy
    (Z\_DEFAULT\_STRATEGY) instead of the fixed one (Z\_FIXED). The
    difference is that the use of dynamic Huffman codes is enabled now
    resulting in better compression ratio for normal data.

Deprecated
----------

-   The previous behavior for upstream connection pool circuit breaking
    described
    [here](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.13.0/intro/arch_overview/upstream/circuit_breaking)
    has been deprecated in favor of the new behavior described
    `here <arch_overview_circuit_break>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.

-   Access Logger, Listener Filter, HTTP Filter, Network Filter, Stats
    Sink, and Tracer names have been deprecated in favor of the
    extension name from the envoy build system. Disable the runtime
    feature
    \"envoy.deprecated\_features.allow\_deprecated\_extension\_names\"
    to disallow the deprecated names. Use of these extension names
    generates a log message and increments the
    \"deprecated\_feature\_use\" metric in stats.

      -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Canonical Names                                   Deprecated Names
      ------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
      envoy.access\_loggers.file                        envoy.file\_access\_log

      envoy.access\_loggers.http\_grpc                  envoy.http\_grpc\_access\_log

      envoy.access\_loggers.tcp\_grpc                   envoy.tcp\_grpc\_access\_log

      envoy.filters.http.buffer                         envoy.buffer

      envoy.filters.http.cors                           envoy.cors

      envoy.filters.http.csrf                           envoy.csrf

      envoy.filters.http.dynamo                         envoy.http\_dynamo\_filter

      envoy.filters.http.ext\_authz                     envoy.ext\_authz

      envoy.filters.http.fault                          envoy.fault

      envoy.filters.http.grpc\_http1\_bridge            envoy.grpc\_http1\_bridge

      envoy.filters.http.grpc\_json\_transcoder         envoy.grpc\_json\_transcoder

      envoy.filters.http.grpc\_web                      envoy.grpc\_web

      envoy.filters.http.gzip                           envoy.gzip

      envoy.filters.http.health\_check                  envoy.health\_check

      envoy.filters.http.ip\_tagging                    envoy.ip\_tagging

      envoy.filters.http.lua                            envoy.lua

      envoy.filters.http.ratelimit                      envoy.rate\_limit

      envoy.filters.http.router                         envoy.router

      envoy.filters.http.squash                         envoy.squash

      envoy.filters.listener.http\_inspector            envoy.listener.http\_inspector

      envoy.filters.listener.original\_dst              envoy.listener.original\_dst

      envoy.filters.listener.original\_src              envoy.listener.original\_src

      envoy.filters.listener.proxy\_protocol            envoy.listener.proxy\_protocol

      envoy.filters.listener.tls\_inspector             envoy.listener.tls\_inspector

      envoy.filters.network.client\_ssl\_auth           envoy.client\_ssl\_auth

      envoy.filters.network.echo                        envoy.echo

      envoy.filters.network.ext\_authz                  envoy.ext\_authz

      envoy.filters.network.http\_connection\_manager   envoy.http\_connection\_manager

      envoy.filters.network.mongo\_proxy                envoy.mongo\_proxy

      envoy.filters.network.ratelimit                   envoy.ratelimit

      envoy.filters.network.redis\_proxy                envoy.redis\_proxy

      envoy.filters.network.tcp\_proxy                  envoy.tcp\_proxy

      envoy.stat\_sinks.dog\_statsd                     envoy.dog\_statsd

      envoy.stat\_sinks.metrics\_service                envoy.metrics\_service

      envoy.stat\_sinks.statsd                          envoy.statsd

      envoy.tracers.dynamic\_ot                         envoy.dynamic.ot

      envoy.tracers.lightstep                           envoy.lightstep

      envoy.tracers.zipkin                              envoy.zipkin
      -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    ::: {.note}
    ::: {.admonition-title}
    Note
    :::

    Some renamed filters produce metadata using their filter name as the
    metadata namespace:

    -   Mongo Proxy Filter
    -   Zookeeper Filter

    The metadata generated by these filters may be consumed by the
    following extensions, whose configurations may need to be adjusted
    to use the new names.

    -   Access Loggers
    -   HTTP and Network Ext Authz filters
    -   HTTP and Network RBAC filters
    -   Tracers
    :::

-   The previous behavior of auto ignoring case in headers matching:
    `allowed_headers <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.AuthorizationRequest.allowed_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"},
    `allowed_upstream_headers <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.AuthorizationResponse.allowed_upstream_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}, and
    `allowed_client_headers <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.AuthorizationResponse.allowed_client_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} of HTTP-based [ext\_authz]{.title-ref} has been
    deprecated in favor of explicitly setting the
    `ignore_case <envoy_api_field_type.matcher.StringMatcher.ignore_case>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field.

-   The [header\_fields]{.title-ref},
    [custom\_header\_fields]{.title-ref}, and
    [additional\_headers]{.title-ref} fields for the route checker tool
    have been deprecated in favor of
    [request\_header\_fields]{.title-ref},
    [response\_header\_fields]{.title-ref},
    [additional\_request\_headers]{.title-ref}, and
    [additional\_response\_headers]{.title-ref}.

-   The [content\_length]{.title-ref}, [content\_type]{.title-ref},
    [disable\_on\_etag\_header]{.title-ref} and
    [remove\_accept\_encoding\_header]{.title-ref} fields in
    `HTTP Gzip filter config <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.http.gzip.v2.Gzip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} have been deprecated in favor of
    [compressor]{.title-ref}.

-   The statistics counter [header\_gzip]{.title-ref} in
    `HTTP Gzip filter <config_http_filters_gzip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of
    [header\_compressor\_used]{.title-ref}.

-   Support for the undocumented HTTP/1.1 [:no-chunks]{.title-ref}
    pseudo-header has been removed. If an extension was using this it
    can achieve the same behavior via the new
    [http1StreamEncoderOptions()]{.title-ref} API.

-   The grpc\_stats filter behavior of by default creating a new stat
    for every message type seen is deprecated. The default will switch
    to only creating a fixed set of stats. The previous behavior can be
    enabled by enabling
    `stats_for_all_methods <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.grpc_stats.v2alpha.FilterConfig.stats_for_all_methods>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}, and the previous default can be enabled until the end
    of the deprecation period by enabling runtime feature
    [envoy.deprecated\_features.grpc\_stats\_filter\_enable\_stats\_for\_all\_methods\_by\_default]{.title-ref}.

-   The
    `source_ip <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.source_ip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field in
    [RBAC](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/config/rbac/v2/rbac.proto)
    has been deprecated in favor of
    `direct_remote_ip <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.direct_remote_ip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `remote_ip <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.remote_ip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
